---
title: What is Mana?
---

# About Mana

## Why "*another*" framework?

**1. Traditional web frameworks don't always work**

Mana doesn't compete with frameworks like React or Vue. It solves a very different problem.

The web doesn't contain only PWAs. There are also our good old *websites*. They get generated by a CMS, or a static site generator, or a server-side web framework. In any case, prerendered HTML gets sent to the browser. Regular JS frameworks are in conflict with this idea, because both try to create HTML. Now, some HTML stays in the server code, some HTML stays in the client code. This is a mess!

This is why a framework is needed that works with the HTML that comes pre-rendered from the server.

**2. Mana is easy to use ‒ even for non-JS-developers**

For some people jQuery is still the way to go. It's easy to load jQuery, add some plugins, adjust your HTML to make that plugin work, and copy paste some code to make stuff happen.

Now, imagine that, except you don't have to touch JavaScript code at all. You load some scripts, you attach information to your HTML via classes and attributes. And you're done. That's another goal of Mana.

Some of your HTML gets loaded asynchronously via Ajax? Don't worry, Mana supports that, too.

## Why not using WebComponents?

While WebComponents are in the coming, they do have some drawbacks:

- They require JS to render anything at all. Disable JavaScript and you will lose a lot of content.
- They need to initialize themself at page load before they are able to see something. This takes more time and processing power than actually necessary.
- They require you to wrap elements in new custom elements. For each feature you add to your page you need a new element in your DOM. This makes your DOM tree more complex than necessary.

WebComponents can be helpful, but they share more similarities with traditional web frameworks than anything else.

## Why the name "Mana"?

Mana ‒ as known from the fantasy genre ‒ is the energy of life. It brings life to otherwise dead objects. Just like the concept of mana, the framework Mana brings "life" (= functionality) to the otherwise "dead" (= static) HTML.